mainly multi-project instead of single project. rather than launching a flux instance for each project, there would be one daemon-like process. instead of the orchestrator being start/stopped, it would always be on, but individual projects can be running or not. The orchestrator would then launch 1..n works for issues for any projects that are running. The project path would need to be store and an agent could be launch from in that path as the CWD

The idea for flux has been extracted from my forge/bellows game engnine project where one of the key feature is the "Anvil" MCP which is a special protocol of hot-loading tools that the agent is able to modify/extend and immediately use within a session without needing to be reconnected. I've been thinking a lot about this, and I think it would work even better if we dropped the idea of it being an MCP and instead focused on it being a CLI tool based on conventions. We could have shared cross-project anvil tools (e..g. I use fontawesome icons in a lot of project, and the models are bad about hallucinating icon names or knowing what's availbable. ONe of the anvil tools I added in my game engine (for engine UI tools) is a wrapper around fontawesome's graphQL API to search and discover icons (it even does similar keywords, so searching for "settings" would include the "gear" and "slider" icons in the results). A tool like that could be useful for multiple projects, and there should be a clear pattern for projects to own their own tools that can be immediate added and then available for the models to use for tool calls. High discoverability/composability, high levels of accountability and ownership for the agents to identify gaps in the retro and extend/modify/add new Anvil tools. I'm thinking this could be some kind of CLI first tool, not based on MCP.

it should be very fault tolerent and able to recover from crashes, reboots, laptop sleeping, etc. This is still a personal tool that runs on my own computer for my own projects though.

a lot of the above I've already ben thinking about. I want an "auto-planning" feature. Right now, the workflow is the user opens an agent (claude, opencode, etc.) and talks to it about the work we want to do and the agent makes tools calls to create issues. Usually this comes from reviewing a design document and a roadmap of milestones. What I've found is a lot of spec-driven systems like BMAD/speckit etc. lead you to create HIGHLY prescriptive detailed work for the entire project which doesn't leave a lot of room for emergent ideas, creative problem-solving or adaptablity when the original plan is insufficient and we have to go off the rails. What I'd like to do is have a design document and some high-level milestone/epics as a roadmap established by the user. The project configuration will have a pointer to that document. Then on some kind of scheduled task, Flux will continuosly be looking at the state of the tickets, pending and completed, and the design and the road map and incrementally extracting new tickets from the design document using it as a "northstar", but allowing the actual implementation details to be much more flexible, adaptable, and emergent in nature. We don't create 1000 tickets up front, we create a dozen that work toward the first milestone, as they get compelted and the system learns about the project and better understand the challenges, as it builds the tools it needs with anvil, it layers more work, continusouly doing code reviews, pausing to consider refactors based on new learning, etc. until eventually all milestones are achieved.

I am STRONGLY considering building our own agent from scratch with it's own system prompts and speicialized tools, then calling out to model provider APIs directly skipping CLI tools like Claude Code, Opencode, etc. I think we can build them in parallel though, with the "native" agent an option along side CC and opencode, etc. We have only implemented CC so far, but opencode was next on my plan until I had this idea. Keeping them all availble will let us benchmark the performance of our native agent by have separate projects all seeded with the same PRD and roadmap.